well you're watching eljer a reminder of
our top stories this hour the Israeli
Army has bombed the officers of
Palestine red cresant in gaza's southern
city of KH Unis thousands of displaced
Palestinians have been Sheltering there
video has emerged showing Palestinians
stripped and rounded up by Israeli
forces at a sports stadium in Gaza the
footage was released by the Palestinian
kuds news agency it comes as the UN
sounds the alarm about Israel's
treatment of
detainees and Israeli forces have killed
two Palestinians during a raid on a
refugee camp south of Hebron in the
occupied West Bank at least 55
Palestinians were arrested in incursions
across the territory on
Tuesday well let's bring in Maan Bashar
Al jazer senior political analyst once
again I want to uh stick talking about
the raids in the occupied West Bank they
have happened almost nightly since the
War Began uh but they have seemed to be
more intense in the last night or so a
number of uh different areas were raided
overnight at least two people killed
more than 50 people arrested why do you
think it is that Israel seems to be
ramping up the pressure and the tension
when it comes to the occupied West
Bank I think we've seen something
similar that happens in Gaza and the
West Bank albe it a different style of
fighting while uh there's a a genocide
taking place in Gaza there's a low
intensity Warfare against the West Bank
and against the Palestinian the West
Bank happening at the same time clearly
the netan government wants to take
advantage of the attention uh being
given to Gaza in order to carry uh that
kind of uh action in the West Bank and
what is that action it's actually mostly
land
theft uh destruction of houses and
sometimes communities on the West Bank
uh while uh doubling down on the
settlement the illegal settlements of uh
Jews in the West Bank Bank to try to uh
coup up the Palestinians basically
shrinking in as much as possible the
land available to the Palestinians in
the future so are they using the war in
Gaza as an excuse as a distraction to
really push further into the occupied
West Bank both as an excuse and a
distraction uh in the sense that uh
while we are all paying a lot of
attention to the to the real challenge
to the real genocide to the real
suffering in Gaza they are carrying
their intensity uh Warfare on on the
Palestinians but the thing is um that
while Gaza is the greater military
challenge uh the West Bank is the real
political prize I I mean um Israel would
like to get rid of Gaza if possible you
know sever relations or push the Gaza to
the Sinai when it comes to the West Bank
it's much more difficult and hence
they're trying to do whatever they can
in order to control as bigger parts of
the West Bank as possible while the
world is not paying attention now the
American Administration has sort of
invoked a bit the issue of the settler
violence against the Palestinians but
nothing about the Israeli military
violence against the Palestinians let's
remember that uh before October 7 there
were about 5,000 uh Palestinian
prisoners now
Reuters uh report rep that there's some
10,000 political prisoners so they're
actually using the time in order to
crack down to repress to oppress to to
steal it's a daylight theft of the
Palestinian territories and the
preferred weapon is the bulldozer the
way they're bulldozing entire
communities houses and so on so forth
yeah now the Striking thing here right
is that while this is happening the
subtler violence and the military
violence against the Palestinians in the
West Bank the Palestinian Authority
that's supposed to be taking care of the
security and the well-being of the
Palestinians in the West Bank is doing
nothing about it it's doing even nothing
about the settler violence which if it
does it will probably get a lot of uh
praise from those in London and
Washington who have been condemning
settler violence against the
Palestinians wh why why haven't they
been doing anything and what should they
be doing well let's let's talk about
what they are not doing right uh just to
broaden up up
bit so Israel responded to the killing
of 1200 Israelis uh many of them
soldiers many of them killed by Israel
itself on the October 7 by killing
20,000 plus
Palestinians H with casualties now
probably over 100,000 right that's was
the Israel the respond
now as Israel kills more than 20,000
Palestinians the Palestinian Authority
does not nothing nothing actionable
nothing serious I mean it goes to the
United Nations but in fact on the ground
in as far as wherever whether it's
symbolic or practical or serious it's
not doing anything now I can imagine
that a lot of people argue that the the
Palestinian Authority is not strong
enough and doesn't want to carry
anything suicidal against Israel today
invoking greater violence against them
but they can do a lot that is both
symbolic practical actionable in order
to stop the isra the Israeli aggression
against the Palestinians now why I think
it's both willful and
Wishful why do I say that I I think
willful in the sense that the head of
the Palestinian Authority has long said
he will never ever use violence against
Israel no matter what right even when
Israel carries a genocide against yes
that's the willful part The Wishful part
is that he seems to buy into the
American lies about a vision of a
two-state solution he's been promised
that once the genocide in Gaza is
finished that he will get a reward a
state in the West Bank of course the
Israeli Prime Minister says there's
going to be nothing and we don't even
accept the Palestinian Authority let
alone accept the Palestinian Authority
and a Palestinian State yeah so there is
a willful and a Wishful part on the part
of the Palestinian Authority that that
is rendering Palestine Gaza unlivable
and Palestine and and the West Bank
basically uh um you know slowly but
surely under Israeli control which
basically means that the illusion of a
Palestinian state is going to be a a
total reality in the sense that with the
pales with the Israeli settlers growing
up to a million and the Palestinians
coed up in their little Villages and
refugee camps it's going to make
anything that looks like two entities
impossible okay thanks so much M we
really do appreciate it's m Bashar for
us there